private subnet = resources within the private subnet can communicate with any other resources of any subnets within the vpc. They dont have external network access

The internal resources like database servers, caching clusters (redis cluser) etc that should not be exposed to external world are placed aspart of the private subnet. Because these resources holds sensitive and confidential data that is internal to the application/organization to whom they belong to.
  

public subnet = resources within the public subnet can not only communicate with other resources across the subnets of the vpc, these can communicate with external resources of the public network as well.
  
The resources like ec2 compute instances, load balancers etc that holds software applications that should be accessible to the endusers are placed aspart of public subnet


hydrid subnet
--------------
In a Hybrid subnet, only outbound network traffic towards the external or public network is allowed, but an inbound network traffic from external/public network towards the subnet resources is not allowed. In addition the resources within the Hybrid can communicate with all the other resources across the subnets of the same vpc.
  
How to create an Hybrid subnet?
1. create an vpc network
vpc name: payrollvpc
cidr: 10.1.0.0/16
  
2. create minimum 2 subnets [1 as public subnet and 2nd as hybrid subnet]
2.1 
  subnet name: payrollpubsn1
  cidr: 10.1.1.0/24
  vpc: payrollvpc
  availability zone: ap-south-1a
2.2
  subnet name: payrollhybsn2
  cidr: 10.1.2.0/24
  vpc: payrollvpc
  availability zone: ap-south-1b
  
after creating the above 2 subnets both are private subnet only . 

3. Make one of the subnet as public subnet, to do this we need to provision internet gateway and define route table with route rules routing the public subnet traffic through the internet gateway as described below
3.1 create internet gateway
internet gateway name: payrolligw            
            
3.2 attach to the vpc network    
  vpcname: payrollvpc
  
3.3 create a route table by associating the subnet and add route rule as below
route table: payrolligwrt
vpc name: payrollvpc
subnet associate: payrollpubsn1
route rule:
cidr          target
10.1.0.0/16   local
0.0.0.0/0     payrolligw

Now the payrollpubsn1 subnet became public subnet.
  
4. Let us setup 2 subnet as hybrid subnet. To do this we need to provision Nat gateway on one of the public subnet on our vpc and add route rule routing the public network traffic through the NAT gateway

4.1 create nat gateway
  nat gateway name: payrollntgw
      subnet name: payrollpubsn1
      allocate elastic ip
  then create
4.2 create a route table by associating hybsubnet and add route rule
route table: payrollnatgwrt
vpc name: payrollvpc
subnet association: payrollhybsn2
route rules:
cidr           target
10.1.0.0/0     local
0.0.0.0/0      payrollntgw

with this payrollhybsn2 become hybrid subnet allowing subnet resources to communite with external network, but external network to subnet resources are not allowed.
  
How to test the Hybrid subnet?
1. create an ec2 instance on the hybrid subnet with below configurations
  1.1 ec2 instance name: payrollappec2
      shape: t2.micro
      ami: ubuntu
      keypair: hrec2kp.pem
      vpc: payrollvpc
      subnet: payrollhybsn2
      allocate public ip: false
      security groups: default
      launch instance
2. create another ec2 instance on public subnet that acts as an jumpbox:
  2.1 ec2 instance name: payrolljumpbox
      shape: t2.micro
      ami: ubuntu
      keypair: hrec2kp.pem
      vpc: payrollvpc
      subnet: payrollpubsn1
      allocate public ip: true
      security groups: default
      launch instance
      
      
How to connect to the hybrid subnet ec2 instance?
1. copy the ssh keypair on the host computer to the jumpbox using scp command as below
syntax:- scp -i identityFile sourceFile user@publicip:/location

scp -i ~/.ssh/hrec2kp.pem ~/.ssh/hrec2kp.pem ubuntu@publicip:/home/ubuntu/.ssh/
  
2. now ssh into the jumpbox
ssh -i ~/.ssh/hrec2.pem ubuntu@jumpboxipaddress

3. change keypair permissions
chmod 600 ~/.ssh/hrec2kp.pem

4. ssh into the hybrid subnet ec2 instance from jumpbox
ssh -i ~/.ssh/hrec2kp.pem ubuntu@hybridsnec2ip

once we are into payrollappec2 (hybrid subnet) machine, we can test the outbound network traffic to external network by using curl/ping or apt command

ping www.google.com 
(or)
curl www.google.com
(or)
apt update -y

all the above commands should result a success response 

note: delete ec2 instances, nat gateway, elastic ip address and vpc, otherwise billing will be added bonus




















      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  




































  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  