What are the problems we run into if the developers, qa engineers and operational engineers are working dis-jointly in separate teams in developing and delivering the software applications?
Even though all the 3 roles of people are working for one project, if there are working in separate teams we run into several problems:
1. lack of co-oridination and communication gaps between the teams/people delays the development delivery of the project
2. due to communiation gaps the teams repeatedly hit into failures in delivery of the application due to which the motivation and the moral of the team members goes down
3. as the teams are working separately a failure in delivery brings the blame game across the teams
4. rather than the whole success of the project, they strive for individual success 
5. gurus emerges within the team who controls every aspect of software development and delivery

To overcome the above problems adopt the devops process and practices:
What is Devops?
Devops is change in culture/process and adoption of new tools and technologies in developing and delivering the software applications, so that we can achieve fast-paced development and delivery of the application

What is the change in culture?
Rather than working in 3 individual teams, let all the people work under one-single team called "devops team". There are plenty of advantages of working under one-single team
1. No chance of communication gaps or co-ordination problems between the people as everyone works under one-single team, every one will be involved right from the day one of commencement of the project, so that everyone knows everything throughout the stages/phases of the project so there is
	1.1 no chance of delay in development and delivery of the project
	1.2 no failures in delivery since there is no communication gap
	1.3 no more blame games as all are working under one team
	1.4 rather than looking at individual success they look for team success as everyone is working in one-single team
From this we can understand by adopting the devops culture we can eliminate most of the problems we encounter while working on an project or application	

In addition to this we need to adopt new tools and technologies in developing and delivering the application
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
#1 developer
what are the tools/technologies developer has to adopt in speeding up the development of the project?
1. requirement gathering and understanding the requirement so that he can develop the software application
2. choose the programming language that suites the nature of the application development
3. setup the development environment to facilitate developing the application
	3.1 need infrastructure
	3.2 operating system sofware
	3.3 install language software 
	3.4 install developer tools like ide, utilities etc
	3.5 install database server
	3.6 install application server and configure it 
	3.7 setup the sourcecode of the project by taking from sourcecode repository

To setup the development environment above initially it takes at an average of 15-20 days per one single resource. there after incase of system replacement due to upgrades or hardware failures takes an week to 1- days. and if we consider a team of 5 - 7 people , for setting up the development environment for the whole team it takes an about 150 - 180 person days for the entire team, which means the client has to pay per a resource half-year cost per doing nothing. which contributes to the increases cost of development and delivery of the application

how to overcome the above problem?
adopt virtualization technology in setting up the development environment.
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	




















































































