Kubernetes Namespace
--------------------
Namespaces are used for creating naming compartments or logical group of objects/resources on the Kubernetes cluster.
 A kubernetes cluster would be shared across multiple teams to run various different projects on the cluster,
 so to avoid objects/resources of one project/team accessing the others we can use namespaces

A kubernetes administrator can create multiple kubernetes users, assocate them into groups.
 create kubernetes namespaces and grant access to the users/groups to those namespaces only.
The administrator can create namespaces per team/project/application, 
create users/groups associate them to the namespaces allowing them to create/manage/modify the objects/resources of their respective namespace only. 
So that we can avoid different groups of people to see or manage resources of others. hence the cluster is secured and protected.
	
By default aspart of the kubernetes install there are 4 namespaces will gets created

1. default          = every object that is created on kubernetes cluster will be placed by default under "default" namespace only. all the users/groups of the cluster has access to the default namespace and it should be sufficient for most of the usecases. The default namespace by default is empty.
	
2. kube-system      = all the kubernetes system objects like api manager, controller manager and scheduler are placed under "kube-system" namespace

3. kube-public      = by default kube-public namespace is empty, if we place any objects within the kube-public those are accessible publicly to everyone without authentication

4. kube-node-lease  = all the kubernetes leased objects are associated within the kube-node-lease namespace

1. How to see the namespaces on the cluster?
kubectl get namespaces
in short we can use ns instead of namespaces
kubectl get ns

returns all the list of namespaces that are available on the cluster.
	
2. How to create our own namespace in the kubernetes cluster?
kubectl create namespace namespacename

3. How to delete a namespace?
kubectl delete ns namespacename

4. How to see all the pods running/available on the cluster?
kubectl get pods

by default the kubectl will be running on "default" namespace only so it shows all the objects like pods, deployments, replicaset, services etc that are on default namespace only

If we want to see the objects/resources under a specific namespace then we need to use -n switch as below
kubectl get pods -n namespacename

5. How to see all the objects on the cluster irrespective of the namespace?
kubectl get pods -A




































