scope of services
-----------------
There are around 200++ services are offered by aws cloudplatform, these services are categorized into 3 different scopes based on their availability and accessibility
1. Global
2. Regional
3. Availability Zone

1. Global
The services scoped to the global are accessible and available across all the regions of the AWS Cloudplatform. A change in any of these services/resources would be reflected across all the regions of the AWS cloudplatform.
  
Few of the examples of global scope services are:
1.1 when we create an IAM user or modified an existing IAM user, it would be reflected across all the regions globally of that account.
1.2 If we add an DNS Entry in Route53 service the route information would be propagated/reflected or modified across all the regions of the cloud account.
  
2. Regional
The services that are scoped to the region level are only visible and accessible within the region under which those are provisioned or created. 
For example:
2.1 when we create a dynamodb table within ap-south-1 region, since it is scoped to the region level, the table will be visible and accessible within that region only.
  
2.2 if we create an S3 bucket, the bucket and the objects stored inside the bucket are accessible within the region only.
  
3. Availability Zone
These are the services created and accessible within the AZs of the region only.
For example, the ec2 instance will be created within the AZ of the region only.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- There are categorized into 7 core domains
1. Networking
2. Compute
3. Storage
4. Database
5. Security (IAM)
6. Messaging
7. Developer Tools
8. Monitoring


How to provision an ec2 instance in aws cloud console?
1. login into the aws cloud console.
2. choose the region from the top right corner in where we want to create the ec2 instance
3. goto services menu -> select compute and click on ec2
4. in the ec2 dashboard, click on launch instance button 
5. in the instance provision page enter the below details:
  1. instance name
  2. AMI (operating system) = ubuntu
  3. shape: t3.micro (free-tier)
  4. click on generate new keypair
    4.1 a popup will be shown asking for keypair type (RSA, pem file)
    4.2 upon create, it will allows us to download the keypair, store it in $USER_HOME/.ssh/ directory on windows/linux computer
6. leave rest of the options as default
    1. networking
    2. storage
    etc
7. click on launch instance and navigate to instance list page, we should see our ec2 instance we provisioned in the list

How to connect remotely to the ec2 instance?
1. install gitbash software on the computer windows only
2. open gitbash terminal
3. copy the public ip address of the ec2 instance we provisioned from instance detail page
4. goto gitbash terminal and enter the below command
ssh -i identityFilePath  ubuntu@publicip
         (keypair)
      
this command logs you into the ec2 instance, we can check by running commands like
ls
pwd
etc

note: upon using the ec2 instance, goto the instance list page, select instance and terminate by click on instance state->terminate option, so that we will not be charged



























  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  