Why do we need Software Application, what is the purpose of them?
An Enterprise business organization provides various different business services to their customers, if the organization provides these services at desk or in-person there are lot of problems are there
Problems:
1. The manual process of conducting the business in offering the services to the customer will be slow, which would result in dis-satisfaction to the customer
2. chances of fraud is very high
3. since the business is carried manually, there is a high chance of committing human mistakes which would inccur loss to the business
4. need more manpower in carrying the business services manually, which incurrs huge running cost 

To eliminate the above problems the business organizations has to offer services using software applications. There are lot of advantages of conducting the business using software applications
advantages:
1. speed at which we offer the services to the customer would be high
2. eliminates fraud
3. high accuracy in performing the transactions
4. less manpower required in running the business, thus lowering the running cost of the business
5. high security

What is an Sofware Application?
Software application comprises of group/bunch of programs written with instructions using an programming language like
1. c
2. c++
3. java
4. python
5. .net
6. php
etc
through which the business offers services to their customers

What is DevOps?
DevOps is a change in culture and adoption of new software tools and technologies, in fast-paced development and fast-paced delivery of the software application is called "DevOps"

Why do we need to develop and deliver an application quickly?
1. the more it takes the time in building the application, it directly proportionate to the cost of development, which means everyone cannot afford to use software for running their business. If we can reduce the IT development and infrastructure cost in delivering the application, then the software technology becomes reachable to everyone

2. We want to stay ahead of competitors in the market

Nokia, Motorola -> 
Samsung -> quick at innovation and delivery = touch phones and color displays































	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	