How to add an normal user into the linux operating system?
linux will perform several operations behind the scenes while adding the user	
1. when we ask linux to create an user, it generates an uid by incrementing the last generated uid + 1 from the /etc/passwd file and associate the uid to the user we are adding automatically
2. every user in the linux operating system must and should be associated or assigned to a group, so while adding the user linux will first creates an group with groupName as same as username and generates gid for the group it is adding by incrementing the last generated gid + 1 from /etc/group file and assigns the user to that group
3. for each user we create, by default linux will creates an home directory for the user under /home/$USER
4. assigns for the user it is creating an default shell (by default the default shell if we dont specify any is /bin/bash)
	
only the root user can add other users into the linux operating system, because all the command related to managing the user are part of /sbin directory

/etc = configuration files
/bin = core linux commands
/sbin = super user linux commands

There are 2 ways we can add a user to the linux operating system
1. useradd
2. adduser

#1. useradd
useradd is the core system linux command provided by the linux operating system aspart of the bash, by default when we use useradd for adding a new user into the linux operating system, it performs the below activities in adding an user.
	1.1 it creates an group with the username we provided by generating the gid
	1.2 then it creates an user with the username by generating the uid
	1.3 it associates the user to the above group
	1.4 while adding the user it doesnt prompts for password for login, that means the user will be created with no password
	1.5 the user will not be associated with home directory
so we cannot login directly using the user we have created above, since he dont have home directory and password.
		




	


























