How many ways we can create a new user in the linux operating system?
There are 2 ways are there
1. useradd
2. adduser

1. useradd
useradd is an core system linux command that can be used for adding an new user into the linux operating system. by default when use useradd in adding an user 
1. it creates the group with groupname same as username with autogenerated gid
2. it creates the new user with the username we supplied by attaching an autogenerated uid
3. it associates the user with the group it has created as an primary group
4. it doesnt prompts for password, so the user will be created without password
5. no home directory

with this user we cannot login into the machine, we need to perform few operations manually to make the user login into the operating system directly
1. create an home directory location under /home with username
# mkdir /home/$USER
2. change the owner of the directory
chown $USER:$USER /home/$USER
3. set the password for the user
passwd $USER

thus the user becomes effective and he can login into the machine

There are few more switches are available with useradd command
useradd -m -s /bin/bash username
passwd user

#2. adduser
instead of using useradd and perform lot of operations in creating a new user, the ubuntu distro has provided adduser, which will directly takes care of creating the user with password, home directory, default shell etc

adduser username
it prompts for all the inputs, upon providing it creates the user directly
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1. How to know the details of an user?
id = shows us the current logged-in user details
id username = shows us the details of the specified user
it shows uid, primary group gid and other groups the user is associated with

2. how to see the groups to which the user is associated with?
group username
displays all the groups in which the user is in.
if we dont provide username, it shows the current user/logged-in user groups

3. how to create an user with different home directory location, than the default home directory as /home/$USER
useradd -m -d directory -s shell username

4. how to create a new group in linux operating system?
only the root or sudoer can create the group
groupadd groupName
for eg.. 
groupadd devopsgroup
with the above command linux will create a new group called "devopsgroup" by autogenerating the groupid by incrementing the last generated gid from /etc/group file

5. how to create a new group with specific gid?
groupadd -g gid groupName
this will add a new group with the specified gid and groupName

6. how to add a new user with a specific uid, instead of generating it automatically?
useradd -m -s shell -u uid username

7. how to create a new user within an existing group?
useradd -m -s shell -u uid -g gid username
in the above command if we specify the gid as an existing groupid, then the user will be created with the existing group and linux will not create a new group with the groupName as username

8. how to delete an existing user?
it is an superuser command can be done by only root/sudoer

There are 2 commands are there
1. userdel username = linux core system command
2. deluser username = ubuntu distro command

upon executing the command for deleting the user the below things will takes place
1. the specified user will be deleted from the system
2. if the user associated primary group has only one user as the same, then it deletes the group also automatically
3. the home directory of the user will not be deleted, since the other users of the linux system may have access to the files/folders of the user


user: jack, group: jack (primary group), groups: devopsgroup, qagroup


9. how to delete group?
delgroup groupName
if there is any associated with that group as a primary group, then it will not allow us to delete the group

10. How to add an group to an existing user?
for eg.. joe user is already associated with joe group, now we want to add joe to supportgroup as well, this can be done using the below command

usermod -aG grp1,grp2,grp3 username
usermod = stands for modify an user
here 
-a = operation/action as add
G = add a group

11. How to rename an existing user?
usermod -l newusername oldusername
-l = stands for loginname of the user
















































	






























































