1. How to stop the running container?
docker container stop containerid/containername

2. How to forcibly stop and remove the container under running state?
docker container rm -f containerid/containername

3. We can see all the running containers on the docker host using
docker container ps
(or)
docker ps

4. How to run a docker container as a daemon?
There are software applications like database servers, runtimes, webservers etc that runs for longer amount of time until we terminate. 
If we launch such packaged programs as container directly, these will be executed interactively by blocking the terminal(TTY)	
 of the docker host machine. So when we close the TTY or exit from the container, the container would be terminated.
	
Instead we can run the container without blocking the TTY by launching it as daemon container using "-d" switch as below
docker container run -d image:tag
docker run MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=root -d  mysql:8.3.0
	

4. how to run a docker container with a given name instead of docker engine generating a name for the container?
docker container run --name "containername" image:tag	
	
5. How to see the logs generated by the program that is running inside the container?
When we launch the container as a daemon container, the container runs in background and doesnt showup the logs generated by the program that is running inside the container. To see the logs generated by the daemon container we need to use the below command.
	
docker container logs containerid/containername

if you want to tail the logs of the running the container we can use -f option/switch
docker container logs -f containerid/containername

12. How to enter into a daemon container that is running and grab the TTY of the container by executing an command on it?
docker container exec -it containerid/containername command

There is another way of grabbing the TTY or entering into the container using the below command
docker container attach containerid/containername

This command will attaches the TTY interactively with the running container, but upon exiting from the TTY of the container, the container would be terminated.
	
13. How to see the details of a container?
We want to see the information about the container like
1. cpu usage
2. memory
3. storage
4. imageName
5. network interfaces
6. ipaddress
7. portnos
etc

docker container inspect containerid/containername


14. how to start an stopped container?
when we stop an container, the container writable layer will not be destroyed, so when we restart the container, 
all the data that is generated previously by the program that is running in the container will be preserved and available. 
only when we remove/destroy the container, then only the container writable layer will be destroyed.
	
so upon stopping an container, we can restart it and preserve the data of it by starting it using the below command
docker container start containerName



















	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
